1. What is differnce b/w Docker & Kubernetes?
Docker is a tool for creating, managing, and running containers.It packages applications with all their dependencies into a single, lightweight container.
Key Features:
-Creates and runs containers.
-Uses Dockerfile to define how a container image is built.
Kubernetes is a system for managing multiple containers (often across many machines).
It automates deployment, scaling, and operations of application containers.
Key Features:
-Orchestrates (manages) many containers across clusters of servers.
-Handles auto-scaling, load balancing, and self-healing (restarts crashed containers).
-Manages container networking and storage.

2. What are the main component of kubernetes?
kubernetes component into two parts Control & Data Plane.
Control(Master) Plane: API server,Schedular,Control manager, Cloud control manager, ETCD
Data(Worker) Plane: Kubelet,Kubeproxy,Container runtime.

a)API server - Expose the k8s API,all components (users, CLI, other components) communicate through it.
b)Schedular - Respsonible for assigning workloads i.e.Pods
c)Control manager - Respsonible for ensuring the cluster desired state & perforimg loop operations.
d)Cloud control manager - Handles ineractions b/w k8s cluster & underlying cloud providers(AWS,GCP)
e)ETCD - key-value store used to store all cluster data.
f)Kubelet - Respsonible for pod mgt,health monitroring & inform to master node to take action.
g)Kubeproxy - N/W component responsilbe for communcation b/q service & pods.
h)Container runtime - actually runs containers.

3. Day to day activities on K8S?
As part of my DevOps engineer role, I am responsible for managing and maintaining Kubernetes clusters for our organization which includes:
- Application Deployment & Monitoring: Ensuring that applications are properly deployed to Kubernetes clusters and that the cluster and workloads are continuously monitored for any performance or configuration issues.
- Troubleshooting & Support: Acting as a subject matter expert for Kubernetes, I assist developers in troubleshooting complex issues, such as port configurations, service routing, and internal traffic flow within the cluster.
- Ticket & Request Handling: Serving as the point of contact for all Kubernetes-related queries across the organization. We manage Jira tickets or service requests, offering guidance or directly resolving technical challenges.
Through this role, I bridge the gap between infrastructure management and developer enablement, ensuring our Kubernetes environments are stable, secure, and developer-friendly.

4.Diff b/w Docker swarm & K8s.
5.Diff b/w Docker Conatiner & K8S Pods
6.What is namespace in K8S?
7.What is role of Kubeproxy?
8.Diff types of services in K8S?
9.Diff b/w Loadbalancer,Nodeport,Cluster?
10.What is role of Kubelet?



